Go/GetApproval User Guide
Spend Workflow
Controllership: Spend Governance
Last Updated June 2022 by Julianne Oram
Enter a short name for you project. 
If you have several projects of the same type, add the location or 
timeframe. Example: Networking Equipment Australia Q1’22
  
 
 
Select the category 
If you do not see an accurate description of your team, select “Other”
Select the region
Note that Bay Area is separate from N America. If you do not see a region that applies to you, select “Global”
Walkthrough: Basics
Enter a Summary
 
Often used to describe the justification, history, terms, expected outcomes or benefits, spend drivers, IRR, list of items that will be purchased.
Enter submission name details (optional)
The name in the project 
submissions
 list. 
Often used to specify a stage if requesting an 
incremental
 increase.
Link to materials URL 
(optional)
Additional details 
(optional)
You may be asked to provide the 
country, P-code, F-Code, T-Code, or WBS-Code. All are optional.
Walkthrough: Details
Walkthrough: Spend 
Enter the currency of the spend and the exchange rate per 
go/fxrates
 
Enter the Spend Breakdown
Spend should be entered in USD value. A converted value will show up under the table for verification.   
 
Enter the Project Breakdown
Project Breakdown table is mostly used for REWS and Data Centers
Click the “Incremental” checkbox for any spend that is and increase to a prior request
The total in the Current Request Amount column should match the first table total
 
The Incremental checkbox is intended to flag when a project has gone “over budget” from a prior approval
The Project Visibility checkbox is intended for when a project goes up for visibility approval with the total projected budget
Enter notes (optional)
Walkthrough: Spend 
Select the month and year you plan to be ready to seek approval.
 
Enter the employees leading the request
This often includes your manager
Representatives will receive an email notification upon submission. 
Enter stakeholders 
This can include TVCs
Walkthrough: Logistics 
Review the information you have entered and click “Submit” at the bottom of the page.
Make sure your manager is aware of the 
request
. They will often be looped in for context and questions.
Do not initiate any POs until the request is approved.
Submit!
After Submission
After Submission
The outcome of the spend review meetings will be announced via email by the forum manager on the Deal & Spend Governance team to the submitter, representatives listed on the submission, finance, and deal_review (for centralized SOX documentation). 
The GGA submission must be approved before you can raise a Appropriations Request (AR) or Purchase Order PO.
Your project turning out to be more 
expensive
 than the amount that was approved? You can enter another submission referencing the original request. Keep in mind the increase will need to be approved by the highest authority again. For example, if the initial request was $110 million and you are requesting a $20 
million
 increase, the increase will need to be 
reviewed
 by the CFO.
If you need to edit your record after submission, this is your opportunity to work with your spend governance advisor. Please email 
spend-governance@google.com
 with any changes.
Please avoid making any changes to your prepared slides/document after submission
You can see a list of your previous 
submissions
, their status, and edit saved drafts.
You can search for submissions by spend category, date range, and other fields by clicking the carrot on the search bar
To pull information from the tool via Plx, use the table rmc_spendgov.spendapproval_all
Checking In
Contact 
spend-governance@google.com
 for help with any issues from the Risk Management & Compliance team.
If the “Next” button is greyed out, try clicking “Back” and then “Next” again. Remember to write down any information in a separate doc in case the fields are cleared.
Tool Issues
Some Reminders:
GGA go/getapproval is for all spend requests over $50 million 
Check 
deadlines
 
for your specific forum
Any materials in drive should be shared with the executives that will review it. Including the CEO, CFO, and VP of Finance. Please uncheck “Notify people” so they are not sent an email.
 
Contents
2
Preparing Information
1
Why GGA?
Tool Walkthrough
3
After Submission
4
Backup
To submit feedback: 
go/getapprovalchange
For more info about the tool & FAQ: 
go/rmc
To contact the Risk Management & Compliance team: 
go/rmchelp
Links
Tool last revamped in 2020
Tool is not connected to contracts or spend through Pivt or Simba
Tool information
Workflow
 and stakeholder interviews
Buganizer 
component
 for GGA spend workflow
UAT environment 
https://getapproval-test.googleplex.com/
Additional Information
Why?
Why Should I Submit to Go/GetApproval?
GGA
Formal. An official 
record of approval 
will be created for requests that go to Spend Forums or Spend Approval Committee SAC.
Executive 
visibility
. Any project over $50 million USD value should be submitted to GGA (excluding recurring opex such as a utility fee or payroll).
Efficient. The tool steps you through the 
workflow
 in one place.
Requests
 were managed with a trix that could not 
scale
 with the volume and complexity of a $250 billion company.
Stakeholder
 communication
 was manual as stages progressed. This is now automated.
Confidential
. Access to a project can be restricted to users by business department.
 
Without 
GGA
Failure to submit your request in go/getapproval will result in a delay in AR/PR approval
Preparing Information
Submit in advance.
Submit your GGA form at least 5 business days prior to the review meeting you plan to have your deal/project reviewed in 
go/sacschedule
. Reach out to 
spend-governance@google.com
 to get on the agenda. Prior to the meeting, circulate your presentation with cross-functional stakeholders and your team & manager(s) for informal approval.
Prepare outside materials.
Staff often have slides or a doc with in-depth information about the deal/project. There may be a 
template
 
you can use. For each escalation round, (example from CFO to CEO) expect to up-level your presentation. Focus on your executive summary to hit 
important
 high level points.
Prior to opening a submission, gather the information you’ll need.   
Make a list of the project stakeholders. Which staff and TVCs should be notified of the project approval status? When do you need approval by? Lastly, have an estimate of the finances of the project, which year the money will be spent in, if it is capital expenditure or operating expenses.
Prepare Information
Learn about Google’s Commitment Policy and approval rules. 
Visit 
go/spendpolicy
 and 
go/sacfaq
 to read about Google’s policies on signing contract agreement and spending money. 
Tool 
Walkthrough
Basics
Details
Spend
Logistics
Project name 
Category
Region
Summary
Submission name
URL link to materials 
Currency
Fx rate
Increm
ental flag
Spend breakdown
Year
Type: CapEx, Opex, Inventory, Other
Notes
Approval timing
Request representatives
Stakeholders 
GGA Tool Overview
Go to g
o/
g
et
a
pproval 
 
Select the 
Deal
 or 
Spend
 flow
Note: Once you start entering information, a draft record may be created. Do not rely on real-time saving, keep a separate record of your answers. Often data is saved when you click “Next” on a page and a notification will appear at the bottom of the screen. However, clicking “Back” will clear any information you entered on that screen.
If you no longer wish to submit, 
delete your request on the 
recent submissions
 page.
   
GGA Tool Walkthrough